Welcome back.
And in this lesson were you to look at more we can do with canvas.
So we saw earlier in the course that the dorm is available we're able to do some CSSA for be able to
apply some animations and we're able to update and change things outputs for the web user and canvas
can do a lot of the similar things that we saw within the dorm where we've got the ability to draw things
and present information to the user visually and with canvas.
We actually do have some more options than the dorm.
So the dorm is actually fairly memory intensive.
There's also less control over how things get drawn out.
And we saw earlier that with canvas we can actually draw things out and we can be very precise as to
what it's actually going to look like within our canvas and with canvas we actually have the ability
to have multiple canvases on one page so they can also interact with each other.
There is a lot more flexibility and we also have a lot more power when we're dealing with elements.
So I simply update this and I'm going to copy this out and I'm going to create all multiple canvases
and then what we're going to do is we're going to show you because we saw how we can create it as an
image.
So basically that means that canvas can also take images.
So actual images and embed them into the canvas as well.
So that's another really great feature with canvas that we have the ability.
So we saw earlier that we were actually able to create images.
So let's go out and do the same thing that we did earlier where we can build it.
First of all it's build out a rectangle.
So this is going to be done in CTX one and the format that we used was fill rectangle or fill rec and
we needed some numbers there so we needed some parameters there.
So we needed a starting point.
So we're going to start this one 5.
So 5 x 5 y and we'll make it 150 by 100 so let's go and refresh
and I'm actually going to get rid of this and I'm going to like this so we can actually see all three
canvases.
So there's all three canvases.
So why didn't our rectangle actually output so one of the things that we do need to do is switch drew
a rectangle but there's no color in it.
And that's why we're not actually able to see it.
So we need to specify a color and we saw earlier that we can specify and we were actually specifying
a random color.
So that was Phil style that gave us the ability to set a color.
So this time I'm going to do something simple.
I'm just going to do red.
So let's refresh so refresh it.
And there's our red rectangle So the next one that I wanted to do is I want to draw out a circle and
we saw this earlier in the previous lesson as well that we could use the arc where we could draw out
a circle.
So this one CTX too.
And we're going to do begin Poth.
So that tells us that we're starting a brand new path and CTX to again and we're going to use arc
and we saw that we can.
We have to set some coordinates here.
So we needed
an X a y coordinate we needed the radius of the circle and we also needed an angle.
And then also we need to include that math.
So if we refresh it we don't actually see the circle.
So why is that.
I'm actually not seeing the circle.
And that's because I didn't add the stroke value.
So this is actually needs to be added Every time you create a stroke within your canvas.
So there's our circle and I show you how you can actually fill the circle So let's bring that in here
as well.
So we need to use the fill style and remember we've got multiple canvases.
So I want to make a blue circles Let's do that and refresh.
And there's one other thing that we still need to show you.
So we've got the stroke and we also need to do CTX fill.
So doing the fill method and that's going to work the same way a stroke.
But it's going to actually fill that last object with whatever Cuyo color is available so basically
gives us a blue circle.
So there we go.
So now we've effectively drawn two images.
So the last thing I want to do is I want to use draw image and we've got C-T x 3 already set up.
So let's grab and we're going to draw image.
And so what we need to do is first of all we need to specify an image and luckily we already have two
images ready to go.
And those are from canvas 1.
So to CTX one and CTX two.
So those are all ready to go.
So a canvas one and canvas two we can use in order to add images.
So let's set that image and we can set it at 10 10.
And next let's take the other image as a canvas two and set that at 10:10 as well.
So there we go.
So we were over able to overlap one image on top of the other image using canvas Draut image it is one
of the thing that I want to show you in this lesson and that's working with images that are already
available within your page.
So I need to equal that to my image.
And let's give it a source so our source and I know that I've got that download there that we've got
and we've got also the computer so we'll just use this one as our image so let's refresh and we see
that this is the image that we've we used earlier and one of the games so we can actually pull this
into canvas as well.
So let's go ahead and pull that one in as the background.
So this is going to be stacked so depending on when we're calling rendering out that function that's
when it's going to put it there.
So instead of a canvas one I want to grab that image and this is actually going to be really easy to
do where all I need to do is to document.
So we know that the image and the image information is available within the dorm.
So all I need to do is grab my image as an object in javascript and that means that I can then make
use of it within my web page so if I refreshed the page.
So right now if we go out and if we refresh it we actually don't see that image being brought in.
And that's because the way the order is loading that we need to make sure that the Dom has actually
finished loading this image and that's where we need to wrap all of our canvas into a window onload
function and then within that function itself.
So just do an anonymous function and then that function will just wrap around everything.
So now when we refresh it there we go.
So now we're recreating a brand new image from an image that we've got sitting within our Web page.
So that was great that we could combine two images that we've created and make a third one and we can
also take our image that's available within our Web page and pull that back into our canvas and then
actually build an image out of that.
So now let's add some more functionality to this.
And one of the other things that we can do is we can actually get these images as image paths.
So what I'm going to quickly do is I'm going to add some Javascript.
So an on click events and we're going to fire off
image data.
So it's going to return back that image data that's available there.
So whenever we click on it and let's create that function.
So the function image data AMG data whenever it gets clicked I going to do a console log and I can grab
that event target information so that we saw that earlier that we can grab them at Target.
So let's do that.
And let's refresh.
So now when I click it and let's open up the console we click it we get all of this information that's
available within that Kandace.
So there is a way to actually output this and get the data you are l.
So that is two data.
You are also all uppercase.
So now when I click it we're actually going to get an image value there.
So we get those data image PAGG so we get a base 64 representation of that image.
And if you go out and if you look at this this is a representation of that image so you can actually
click that and you can open it up and you can see that image separately.
So we're actually able to pull out that canvas information that it's using in order to build out and
display the image and we're able to pull that back into javascript into a value that we can you is within
our script.
So the next thing that I want to do is I want to update the value of this image so whenever it gets
clicked.
So let's add that in now.
And instead of that let's do documents and we'll do get element by id and we'll grab that element so
grab the my image and then know that we're actually pulling that value into canvas 3.
So I want to just disable that.
So I'm going to comment that so that it's actually not pulling that in because it might have some conflicts
here.
So we want to just work with the two that we have over there.
So I get element by id my image and we know that we can set source value to it.
So we can set its source and if we equal the source to this let's see what happens so let's go out and
refresh it.
And when we click it we're actually getting that image being represented there.
Now within our aged him out.
So what I want you to do now pause the video and we're going to do so Javascript.
So I want you to build out another image in canvas 3.
So a square a circle and you can do another circle a different color circle maybe yellow or something
like that.
So you have three canvasses each with its own image.
And whenever we hover over it.
So this is going to be the listener the mouseover of that listener that I want this image within the
ID my image to update with whatever value is being represented within the canvas at the time.
So go ahead.
Pause the video and add that in and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So I hope you had an opportunity to try that out.
And we're going to be doing what we saw earlier where we can update and we can grab that as a base 64
image value and then we can output it back into our aged him out.
So first thing that we need to do is we need to add some of that listeners.
So we know that these are all canvas elements.
So let's add those in and we're going to create a Word document.
And this time let's use query selector.
All and we're going to grab all of the elements that have that are using the canvas tag.
So grab all of those.
Next thing that we need to do we need to loop through those and we're going to set our event listeners
as we're looping through.
So variable.
We're going to use the variable x loop through while X is less than the length of canvas and to increment
X so we can break out of our loop.
And then within here we're going to set our listener.
So we're going to do X can and we're going to add a listener and the listener that we're adding is most
over and I'm just going to do an anonymous function in here and we're going to use that event target
object that we use down here.
So that's it.
So now we've grabbed that event listener and all we need to do is simply update that I can get rid of
some of the stuff that we had here earlier because we don't need it anymore and there we go.
So let's let's try the saved.
Refresh it.
And we see that now as we hover over everything looks great.
And one other thing that I did want to what I did say is that we should add in something else here.
So let's instead of these three I'm going to just simply commet these values out since we're not going
to be using them.
And we did say that we want it to have a yellow circle.
So let's add that in
so yellow circle and maybe this one can be a little bit bigger.
So maybe we'll go outside of our boundaries so refresh.
So there's our yellow circle and we do need to update this to see CTX 3.
So one more time let's refresh that again.
So there we go.
So now whenever we hover over that canvas element we've got our actual HVM source is changing and updating
with the newly created canvas content image.